# Predicting-Fracability-Index-in-Bakken-Formation
This is a group project for Machine Learning Applications (INFX 598) class that I have taken in Fall semester of 2020 at University of Louisiana at Lafayette. Hydraulic fracturing is one of the most important measures for developing low-porosity and low-permeability oil and gas reservoirs. Determining the most effective fracturing zones without physically tampering with the formation is still considered a tough task. Fracability is a key parameter that has been used to evaluate whether the reservoir can be easily fractured. In recent years, there have been many reports on fracability evaluation. However, the majority of the techniques to estimate fracability include parameters that should be obtained from the experimental tests in the laboratory. It is a time-consuming and costly procedure and thus, an alternative solution is required. In this project, we propose to utilize easily available conventional well logs to describe fracability using machine learning techniques. 
Density, gamma-ray, resistivity, porosity, and sonic log data for Bakken formation were collected from the North Dakota Industrial Commission Oil and Gas Division website. We collected data from 60 wells that are located in the main producing counties: Burke, Mountrail, Williams, Mckenzie, Billings, and Dunn. The fracability index of Bakken formation was predicted using models such as Linear Regression, Support Vector Regression, Lasso Regression, Ridge Regression, Elastic Net, Decision Trees, and Random Forests. The shortlisted models were fine-tuned by using a Grid Search method with different sets of hyperparameters. Consequently, an error analysis was performed on each model using the Root Means Square Error (RMSE) to determine the best predictive model. The model was tested on the new data to determine if it generalizes well. The purpose of this study is to establish a machine learning technique that accurately predicts intrinsic rock properties for newly drilled oil and gas wells.
